src/content/projects/casa-capoeira.md, before:

---
title: 'Casa Capoeira'
description: 'A comprehensive CMS platform for capoeira schools and academies, streamlining class management, student enrollment, and community engagement.'
excerpt: 'Modern CMS platform revolutionizing how capoeira schools manage their operations and engage with students.'
coverImage: '/images/casa-capoeira-cover.png'
coverVideo: '/videos/casa-capoeira-preview.mp4'
tags: ['CMS', 'Education', 'Community', 'Full-Stack', 'SaaS']
techStack:
  [
    'Next.js 15',
    'React 18',
    'TypeScript',
    'Supabase (PostgreSQL + Storage)',
    'Prisma ORM',
    'NextAuth v5',
    'TailwindCSS',
    'ShadCN UI',
    'Radix Primitives',
    'Zod',
    'Resend',
    'Vitest',
    'Playwright',
  ]
featured: true
publishedAt: '2025-08-01'
updatedAt: '2025-08-02'
client: 'Capoeira Community'
duration: '6 months'
role: 'Full-Stack Developer & Product Designer'
team: ['Vasileios Politeiadis']
problem: 'Capoeira schools struggle with manual class scheduling, student management, and community engagement. Existing solutions are either too generic or too expensive for small academies.'
solution: 'Built a specialized CMS platform with intuitive class management, automated enrollment systems, and integrated community features. The platform handles everything from scheduling to payment processing.'
impact: 'Reduced administrative overhead by 70%, increased student retention by 40%, and enabled schools to focus on teaching rather than paperwork. Currently serving 15+ academies across Europe.'
challenges:
  [
    'Complex scheduling logic for recurring classes',
    'Multi-language support for international schools',
    'Payment integration with European providers',
    'Real-time notifications and updates',
  ]
learnings:
  [
    'Importance of domain-specific UX design',
    'Value of early user feedback in niche markets',
    'Complexity of recurring event management',
    'Benefits of TypeScript in large-scale applications',
  ]
liveUrl: 'https://casa-capoeira-portal.vercel.app/en'
githubUrl: 'https://github.com/bpolitiadis/casa-capoeira'
status: 'completed'
featuredImage: '/images/projects/casa-capoeira-hero.jpg'
gallery:
  [
    '/images/projects/casa-capoeira-dashboard.jpg',
    '/images/projects/casa-capoeira-scheduling.jpg',
    '/images/projects/casa-capoeira-mobile.jpg',
  ]
---

# Casa Capoeira - Revolutionizing Capoeira School Management

## The Challenge

Capoeira schools across Europe face a common problem: managing their operations with generic tools that don't understand their unique needs. From complex class scheduling to student progression tracking, existing solutions fall short.

## The Solution

Casa Capoeira is a comprehensive CMS platform built specifically for capoeira academies. It combines powerful backend management with an intuitive frontend that both instructors and students love to use.

### Key Features

- **Smart Scheduling**: Automated class scheduling with instructor availability and capacity management
- **Student Portal**: Personalized dashboards for progress tracking and class booking
- **Payment Integration**: Seamless payment processing with European providers
- **Community Hub**: Built-in social features for academy members
- **Multi-language Support**: Available in Portuguese, English, and Spanish

### Technical Architecture

Built with modern technologies for scalability and performance:

- **Frontend**: Next.js 15 (App Router, Server Components) with React 18 and TypeScript
- **Auth**: NextAuth.js v5 (JWT-based sessions)
- **Backend**: Next.js Route Handlers with Prisma ORM
- **Database & Storage**: PostgreSQL via Supabase + Supabase Storage for media
- **Styling**: TailwindCSS with ShadCN UI and Radix Primitives
- **Validation**: Zod schema validation across client and server
- **Email**: Resend with React Email templates
- **Testing**: Vitest (unit) + Playwright (E2E)
- **Deployment**: Vercel with automated CI/CD

## The Impact

Since launch, Casa Capoeira has transformed how capoeira schools operate:

- **70% reduction** in administrative overhead
- **40% increase** in student retention
- **15+ academies** actively using the platform
- **1000+ students** managed through the system

## Looking Forward

The platform continues to evolve based on user feedback, with plans for mobile apps, advanced analytics, and integration with capoeira federations worldwide.

---

_Casa Capoeira represents the perfect intersection of technical expertise and domain knowledge, creating a solution that truly serves the capoeira community._

Commit message:

feat(projects): enhance project pages with new components and content updates
- Introduced GlassCard, NeonCTA, and ScreenshotFrame components for improved project presentation.
- Added detailed project descriptions, role summaries, and highlights for Casa Capoeira and Upiria.
- Updated project index and individual pages for better layout and responsiveness.
- Removed deprecated project slug page to streamline routing.

src/content/projects/casa-capoeira.md, after:

---
title: 'Casa Capoeira'
description: 'Focused CMS for capoeira academies with scheduling, enrollment, payments, and community.'
excerpt: 'Designed the domain model and shipped a fast, reliable CMS for capoeira schools.'
coverImage: '/images/casa-capoeira-cover.png'
coverVideo: '/videos/casa-capoeira-preview.mp4'
tags: ['CMS', 'Education', 'Community', 'Full-Stack', 'SaaS']
techStack:
  [
    'Next.js 15',
    'React 18',
    'TypeScript',
    'Supabase (PostgreSQL + Storage)',
    'Prisma ORM',
    'NextAuth v5',
    'TailwindCSS',
    'ShadCN UI',
    'Radix Primitives',
    'Zod',
    'Resend',
    'Vitest',
    'Playwright',
  ]
featured: true
publishedAt: '2025-08-01'
updatedAt: '2025-08-02'
client: 'Capoeira Community'
duration: '6 months'
role: 'Full-Stack Developer & Product Designer'
team: ['Vasileios Politeiadis']
problem: 'Capoeira schools struggle with manual class scheduling, student management, and community engagement. Existing solutions are either too generic or too expensive for small academies.'
solution: 'Built a specialized CMS platform with intuitive class management, automated enrollment systems, and integrated community features. The platform handles everything from scheduling to payment processing.'
impact: 'Reduced administrative overhead by 70%, increased student retention by 40%, and enabled schools to focus on teaching rather than paperwork. Currently serving 15+ academies across Europe.'
challenges:
  [
    'Complex scheduling logic for recurring classes',
    'Multi-language support for international schools',
    'Payment integration with European providers',
    'Real-time notifications and updates',
  ]
learnings:
  [
    'Importance of domain-specific UX design',
    'Value of early user feedback in niche markets',
    'Complexity of recurring event management',
    'Benefits of TypeScript in large-scale applications',
  ]
liveUrl: 'https://casa-capoeira-portal.vercel.app/en'
githubUrl: 'https://github.com/bpolitiadis/casa-capoeira'
status: 'completed'
featuredImage: '/images/projects/casa-capoeira-hero.jpg'
gallery:
  [
    '/images/projects/casa-capoeira-dashboard.jpg',
    '/images/projects/casa-capoeira-scheduling.jpg',
    '/images/projects/casa-capoeira-mobile.jpg',
  ]
# Compact-page fields
roleSummary: 'Owned product backbone: domain model, secure auth/data flows, and a maintainable UI kit. Balanced product thinking with engineering for a solution tailored to academies.'
highlights:
  [
    'Defined domain models and data contracts',
    'Implemented secure auth and RBAC',
    'Shipped UI kit and patterns for speed',
  ]
# Two-section layout fields
about: "Casa Capoeira is a focused CMS for capoeira academies. It streamlines class scheduling, enrollment, payments, and community features with multi‑language support so small schools can run operations efficiently."
roleDetails: "Full‑stack developer and product designer. I shaped the domain model, built secure auth and role‑based access, designed the UI kit, and delivered fast, reliable flows across Next.js, Prisma, and Supabase."
roleHighlights:
  [
    'Domain modeling and data integrity patterns',
    'Auth, RBAC, and secure data flows',
    'Design‑engineered UI kit for rapid delivery',
  ]
---

# Casa Capoeira - Revolutionizing Capoeira School Management

## The Challenge

Capoeira schools across Europe face a common problem: managing their operations with generic tools that don't understand their unique needs. From complex class scheduling to student progression tracking, existing solutions fall short.

## The Solution

Casa Capoeira is a comprehensive CMS platform built specifically for capoeira academies. It combines powerful backend management with an intuitive frontend that both instructors and students love to use.

### Key Features

- **Smart Scheduling**: Automated class scheduling with instructor availability and capacity management
- **Student Portal**: Personalized dashboards for progress tracking and class booking
- **Payment Integration**: Seamless payment processing with European providers
- **Community Hub**: Built-in social features for academy members
- **Multi-language Support**: Available in Portuguese, English, and Spanish

### Technical Architecture

Built with modern technologies for scalability and performance:

- **Frontend**: Next.js 15 (App Router, Server Components) with React 18 and TypeScript
- **Auth**: NextAuth.js v5 (JWT-based sessions)
- **Backend**: Next.js Route Handlers with Prisma ORM
- **Database & Storage**: PostgreSQL via Supabase + Supabase Storage for media
- **Styling**: TailwindCSS with ShadCN UI and Radix Primitives
- **Validation**: Zod schema validation across client and server
- **Email**: Resend with React Email templates
- **Testing**: Vitest (unit) + Playwright (E2E)
- **Deployment**: Vercel with automated CI/CD

## The Impact

Since launch, Casa Capoeira has transformed how capoeira schools operate:

- **70% reduction** in administrative overhead
- **40% increase** in student retention
- **15+ academies** actively using the platform
- **1000+ students** managed through the system

## Looking Forward

The platform continues to evolve based on user feedback, with plans for mobile apps, advanced analytics, and integration with capoeira federations worldwide.

---

_Casa Capoeira represents the perfect intersection of technical expertise and domain knowledge, creating a solution that truly serves the capoeira community._
